have you noticed that it's harder to
rank your content in google or have you
noticed that when you share your content
on facebook it's getting less shares
less reach and you're like hey i'm
writing all this content but no one's
really reading it hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
how content marketing will change in
2021 and what you need to do to succeed
through this channel
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
you're probably already finding that
it's harder to get your content noticed
and that's because there's over a
billion blogs on the internet just think
of it this way if there's a billion
blogs that's roughly one for every seven
people there's a ton of content
everyone's trying to crank out content
everyone's trying to crank out even high
quality content so how do you stand out
how do you get noticed how do you
succeed in this busy landscape well
let's go over some trends that'll help
you trend number one you can't rely on
seo or social media anymore
seo is not dead but it takes longer to
get rankings and it's harder still super
effective you just have to be patient
play the long game social media they're
continually cramping down on how much
reach you get unless you spend money on
ads so you got to find a new way to
promote your content one strategy that
you should be leveraging that's super
effective is push notifications you'll
see browser notifications like this also
known as push notifications where people
can subscribe you can use it through
tools like subscribers and here's some
of my stats so every time i release a
new blog post i'll send out a
notification through subscribers and
within their browser they'll get
notified hey there's this new post on
neilpatel.com just like you get noticed
or notified on your browser whether
netflix releases a new video or it's
someone's birthday on facebook these are
all examples of push notifications and
i'm driving tons of traffic from my push
notifications and heck i've even set up
a sequence kind of like email drip
sequences but for push notifications and
i'm getting tons of clicks as you can
see here so i'm getting 89 000 clicks
sixteen thousand twenty seven thousand
twenty thousand twenty one thousand it
all adds up and i don't want you to stop
there use messenger bots email marketing
remarketing and even repurpose your
content and leverage that same piece
into audio form video form or vice versa
so if you don't rely on seo on social
media and you leverage some of these
strategies you'll notice that your
content will start getting more views
and indirectly it'll also start doing
better on the social web and through seo
trend number two you have to start
translating your content you no longer
can just focus on english the biggest
lesson i learned from the google
employees that the majority of the
people in this world
aren't english native speakers and i'm
like yeah i know that there's nothing
new there but they're like no you don't
get it it's not that they're not native
english speakers they also don't search
on google in english they use all these
other languages but english tends to be
the most competitive language for seo so
i was like ah and then i started serving
and looking a lot of corporations and we
ended up learning that people's biggest
traffic gains came from translations so
it's like oh wow so we started
translating and transcribing our content
and you can use ubersuggest to help you
out with this and it'll even tell you
what keywords are popular in each of the
countries and when i started doing this
over time united states only ended up
making up 20 of my traffic brazil india
united kingdom germany all these other
regions started really picking up steam
because i started creating content in
italian german japanese portuguese and
all this has really helped my traffic
grow over time you need to start doing
this now you have no choice just because
it's so competitive in english trend
number three you'll spend more time
updating your content than creating new
content can you guess how much content i
write on a weekly basis
it's actually just one post a week can
you guess how many times my team updates
older posts
it's actually 21 times a week i'm
writing one they update 21 older pieces
of content
if you look at what's led to big traffic
games for companies who are leveraging
content marketing is a lot of it is
updating old content it's actually more
than blogging more from what we're
seeing we serve it over 200 companies
so if you update your content you'll
generate more traffic than if you just
focus on writing more content
and if you look at my traffic getting a
lot of visitors a lot of it's due to
updating content as i said i spent time
creating one article a week myself my
team updates 21 a week of my older
articles now if you're new to blogging
or you have a new site of course you're
not going to update much but once you
get established you've been around for
more than a year or two you're going to
spend more time updating trend number
four companies will hire people who just
optimize for ctr randfishkin did a seo
experiment years ago where he told
everyone to click on the fourth result
instead of you know the other ones he
technically said click on the first
result click the back button then click
on the fourth result
within minutes that result went from
number four to number one um and it
sticked around for a while and that was
because of click-through rate that tells
google that hey people prefer this
listing instead so you need to get more
clicks and you do that by optimizing
your title tag and meta description
eventually you're gonna see companies
hiring just for that some 10 hacks that
you can do to get more clicks
questions and titles tend to get more
clicks uh titles that are 15 to 40 uh 40
characters in length tend to get 8.6
more clicks you get a 45 increase in ctr
when the keyword that someone searched
for is the exact url um not necessarily
your domain name but the url part right
the ending part of your domain name like
slash whatever it may be uh power words
like amazing effortless increased
click-through rate by roughly 13.9
percent you get a 7.3 higher
click-through rate for titles that
contain emotions versus ones that don't
you also get a 5.8 percent higher
click-through rate if you haven't met a
description versus letting google put
whatever they want for your meta
description if you didn't create one uh
titles with years tend to generate 4.9
higher click-through rate evoking
curiosity like the seven benefits of
green tea number six will shock you
what's number six well i'm curious that
tends to increase click-through rate by
5.9 percent and titles resemble
education get 10.4 percent more clicks
and you can also look at paid ads for
inspiration
trend number five
you'll have to learn seo in a new form
what i mean by this is content these
days isn't just about text it's also
about video i rank for a lot of terms on
youtube i'm also getting tons of traffic
from youtube as you can see here i'm
doing that without paid ads but the way
i'm doing it is through youtube seo you
want to promote the videos really hard
and heavy in the first 24 hours use
tools like uber says to include keywords
in your titles your meta descriptions
add the tags and the keywords mention
those keywords within the video you want
to use the hot script by sunny to hook
people in if you're not sure what the
hot script is just google hot script
sunny youtube you'll see a video that
breaks out how to leverage it these are
all examples of youtube seo that can
help you rank higher so you're going to
have to start learning this kind of
stuff because content isn't just text
based people love videos these days
trend number six you'll have to spend
more time on cro sierra's conversion
optimization just think of it this way
how much revenue does your content drive
you'll find that you keep getting more
traffic through content as you do seo
build more links but
how much revenue is it really driving
you may double triple your traffic but
is your revenue doubling tripling if i
had a bet i would bet a thousand dollars
that you probably are gonna say no at
least the majority of the people will
say no
so why is this well people are writing
content for traffic but they're not
optimizing for conversions and you're
gonna see a lot more companies hiring
cro people to adjust their content to
optimize for conversions for example are
you talking about your products or
services within your content chances are
you may not are you adding ads ads for
your own products or services in your
sidebars probably not are you doing exit
pop-ups to collect emails and then drip
people over time to convert them into
customers these are all ways to generate
more revenue from your content and my
last trend for you is free tools is
cheaper than content marketing and it's
more effective so i have this tool
called ubersus check it out it'll give
you ideas on any keyword track your
rankings you can do so much for free
it'll even tell you who's getting
traffic and your competition and the
keywords they rank for and over time if
you want to keep using uber says more
and more you can log in for free and as
i log in sometimes i collect details
sometimes i don't depending the country
you're in and i pass some of these leads
to my sales teams and it generates me
tons of leads and if you had to guess
how many how many do you think
i'll give you a hint here's some my
traffic stats just to uber suggest so if
you had a look at this how many leads do
you think
over 200 000 leads a month
that's the power of tools i think it's
way more effective than content
marketing it's cheaper in the long run
not as many people are doing it and it's
people find it much more valuable than
content marketing as well so if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it subscribe to the
channel if you have any questions leave
a comment i'll answer it i'll help you
out and if you need extra help getting
that extra traffic doing really well in
2021 or just with your content marketing
or any marketing in general check out my
ad agency neil patel digital